docs.md, before:

# Conix Documentation - 0.1.0

## Reference
<hr/>
Builds a page that expects the toplevel module to contain an attribute called `drv`.
Drv typically should be a derivation containing the toplevel render of the content

_Todo_

* The current implementation of build needs to take in a separate set of
pages that are the actual content from the user. And then a single module
that defines how to build the top derivation. If done, this may need to
remove the clunky user interface for needing to define a toplevel
attribute set with a single name and then turn around and give builders
(like `markdownFile`) a name - this is redundant.

```haskell
build :: Page -> Derivation
```
<hr/>
Run the first builder and then pass its output to the second builder.
Collect both the resulting derivations into a directory with the given
name. 

Typically this should be used with `htmlFile` or `pandocFile`.


```haskell
buildBoth :: Name -> a -> (a -> Derivation) -> ((FilePath | Derivation) -> Derivation) -> Derivation
```
<hr/>
Merges the pages into one and then calls `build`.


```haskell
buildPages :: [ Page ] -> Derivation
```
<hr/>
Copy contents of paths to a single directory. If a path is a directory 
its contents are copied and not the directory itself.

For example, given:

```
A
 |- a.txt

B
 |- c.txt
```

`dir "C" [ A B]` will produce:

```
C
 |- a.txt
 |- b.txt
```

NOTE: the later directories in the list could overwrite contents from
other directories. If you wish to copy directories as is use. `dir`


```haskell
collect :: Name -> [ Derivation | Path ] -> Derivation
```
<hr/>
Like `collect` but preserves toplevel directories when copying


```haskell
dir :: Name -> [ (FilePath | Derivation) ] -> Derivation
```
<hr/>


```haskell
emptyModule :: Module
```
<hr/>
This is the evaluator for a page and returns the final module.

```haskell
eval :: Page -> Module
```
<hr/>
Convenience functions for collecting multiple pages and evaluating
them all at once.


```haskell
evalPages :: [ Page ] -> Module
```
<hr/>
Fold an attribute set down while allowing for attribute sets to be a leaf value. 

The first function returns true if the given attribute set is a leaf value.
The second function maps leaf values to final values.
The third function returns a combined final value from the final values of the lower branches.

For example, to sum the leaf values in an attribute set where a leaf is either a nix value
or attribute set containing "stop" as an attribute is:

```nix
countLeaves = foldAttrsCond 
  # An attribute set is a leaf if it contains "stop" as an attribute.
  (s: s ? stop) 
  # return the value 1 for each leaf. We don't need the actual value to compute the result.
  (_: 1)        
  # countMap is a flat attribute set containing the previously counted branches.
  (countMap: builtins.foldl' (sum: count: sum + count) 0 (builtins.attrValues countMap));

# This should return 5.
nleaves = countLeaves { a = { b = "b"; c = "c"; }; d.e.f = "f"; g = { h = { stop = 2; }; i = 7; }; };
```


```haskell
foldAttrsCond :: (a -> Bool) -> (a -> b) -> (AttrSet b -> b) -> AttrSet a -> b
```
<hr/>
This is just like `foldAttrsCond` except the function to convert leaf
values into final values also takes in the path from the top of the
attribute set for that leaf value.


```haskell
foldAttrsIxCond :: ((AttrSet e ) -> Bool) -> (a -> Path -> b) -> (AttrSet b -> b) -> AttrSet a -> Path -> b
```
<hr/>
Maps elements to a module and merges the modules;


```haskell
foldMapModules :: (a -> Module) -> [a] -> Module
```
<hr/>
Maps elements to a page and then merges the pages

```haskell
foldMapPages :: (a -> Page) -> [a] -> Page
```
<hr/>
Merges a list of modules

```haskell
foldModules :: [Module] -> Module
```
<hr/>


```haskell
foldPages :: [ Page ] -> Page
```
<hr/>
Writes a html file to the nix store given some module who's `drv` builds to a markdown file.

_Todo_

* Add the ability to auto-include static resources as part of the
produced derivation.  For example `--css ./filePath` would be generated
via some statement stating to include ./filePath as a css resource.

```haskell
htmlFile :: Name -> String -> (FilePath | Derivation) -> Derivation
```
<hr/>
This is a convenience function for users to create new modules within texts
without needing to manually create modules


```haskell
label :: Path -> Text -> Module
```
<hr/>
Builds a markdown file derivation with the given name to the nix store.

_Todo_

* Maybe refactor the text out?
```haskell
markdownFile :: Name -> Module -> Derivation
```
<hr/>
Modules merge by recursiveUpdate but the toplevel text fields
are concatenated.


```haskell
mergeModules :: Module -> Module -> Module
```
<hr/>
A Page is the toplevel type used throughout conix. 


```haskell
mergePages :: Page -> Page -> Page
```
<hr/>
Construct markdown content for a documentation data structure 

_Todo_

* Right now this is not language agnostic...maybe it should be?
```haskell
mkDocModule :: { name : String; docstr : String; type : String }
```
<hr/>
Create a module using the given nix snippet code and
the evaluated result.

The text is markdown (see snippet for the template)

_Todo_

* This fails in an stack overflow / infinite recursion issue if:

  * the code is importing conix via a fetch git (using `./git.nix`)
  * and we're building the conix documentation.

  For example the `readme/sample.nix` works on its own, however if its
  text is passed in as the `code` argument inside of the readme derivation
  we get infinite recursion.

```haskell
nixSnippetWith :: Name -> String -> Module
```
<hr/>
Writes a file of the specified type to the nix store using pandoc.

The list of derivation are extra buildInputs that pandoc should use.

_Todo_

* Remove hardcoded markdown input type
```haskell
pandoc :: Type -> [ Derivation ] -> Name -> String -> (FilePath | Derivation) -> Derivation
```
<hr/>
Writes a pdf file to the nix store given some module who's `drv` builds to a markdown file.


```haskell
pdfFile :: Name -> String -> (FilePath | Derivation) -> Derivation
```
<hr/>
This is like `label` but for nesting a module. We can't have just `label` and check whether the
input is a string or attribute set (yet? see todo for `toTextModule`) because doing so triggers
infinite recursion. Thus we need a separate function to achieve the same task.


```haskell
set :: Path -> Module -> Module
```
<hr/>
An alias for `builtins.toString`
This is a convenience function so users don't clutter up their content
with long bits of code for small things.


```haskell
str :: (IsString t) => String
```
<hr/>
This is an alias for `text`.
A convenience function for creating 
TODO: it might be a better user experience to rename this to `txt` instead.


```haskell
t :: (IsString t) => t -> Module
```
<hr/>
This is the most common function for constructing content for the user.
It allows them to write plain text and assignments alongside each other.
Here's an example:

```nix
conix: { report = conix.lib.texts [
  ''
  The final count for the muffin competition was:
  ''
  (conix.lib.md.list "muffinCount"
    [ "Blue Berry: ${t (builtins.length conix.muffins.blueBerry)}"
      "Whole Grain:  ${t (builtins.length conix.muffins.wholeGrain)}"
    ]
  )
]; }
```


```haskell
texts :: [ String | Module ] -> Module
```
<hr/>
Converts either text or a module to a module. This is used by the `texts`
function.  NOTE: Use of this can cause infinite recursion issues. See the
Infinite Recursion discussion.

_Todo_

* It might be worth investigating whether I could use a small typing system
      and if x has no type then assume it's a raw, stringable nix value

```haskell
toTextModule :: (String | Module)  -> Module
```
## Discussion

### Modules

Modules are the core of conix. Their type is defined as:

```haskell
Module = { text : String; ... }
```

The rest of the attribute set defines the structure of the user's
content (including the derivations containing the rendered output).

For example the final module describing a single markdown file might
look like:

```nix
{ drv = <derivation>; 
  text = "Call me at: 555-123-456"; 
  phone = "555-123-456"; 
}
```

Here the user has the text for the markdown file; the derivation of the
built markdown file and some extra data containing the phone number.

Modules are meant to allow the user to describe the textual structure of
their content and the structure of the rendered in the same data structure.

The empty module contains nothing. The core functions defined in this file
treat the missing text value as an empty string to save memory.


### Pages

TODO

### Infinite Recursion

TODO


---
Built using <a href="https://github.com/theNerd247/conix.git">conix</a> version 0.1.0

Commit message:

adds documentation for more text utility functions

docs.md, after:

# Conix Documentation - 0.1.0

## Reference
<hr/>
Builds a page that expects the toplevel module to contain an attribute called `drv`.
Drv typically should be a derivation containing the toplevel render of the content

_Todo_

* The current implementation of build needs to take in a separate set of
pages that are the actual content from the user. And then a single module
that defines how to build the top derivation. If done, this may need to
remove the clunky user interface for needing to define a toplevel
attribute set with a single name and then turn around and give builders
(like `markdownFile`) a name - this is redundant.

```haskell
build :: Page -> Derivation
```
<hr/>
Run the first builder and then pass its output to the second builder.
Collect both the resulting derivations into a directory with the given
name. 

Typically this should be used with `htmlFile` or `pandocFile`.


```haskell
buildBoth :: Name -> a -> (a -> Derivation) -> ((FilePath | Derivation) -> Derivation) -> Derivation
```
<hr/>
Merges the pages into one and then calls `build`.


```haskell
buildPages :: [ Page ] -> Derivation
```
<hr/>
Copy contents of paths to a single directory. If a path is a directory 
its contents are copied and not the directory itself.

For example, given:

```
A
 |- a.txt

B
 |- c.txt
```

`dir "C" [ A B]` will produce:

```
C
 |- a.txt
 |- b.txt
```

NOTE: the later directories in the list could overwrite contents from
other directories. If you wish to copy directories as is use. `dir`


```haskell
collect :: Name -> [ Derivation | Path ] -> Derivation
```
<hr/>
Like `collect` but preserves toplevel directories when copying


```haskell
dir :: Name -> [ (FilePath | Derivation) ] -> Derivation
```
<hr/>


```haskell
emptyModule :: Module
```
<hr/>
This is the evaluator for a page and returns the final module.

```haskell
eval :: Page -> Module
```
<hr/>
Convenience functions for collecting multiple pages and evaluating
them all at once.


```haskell
evalPages :: [ Page ] -> Module
```
<hr/>
Extract lines of text within the given line range (start and end inclusive).

This is handy for grabbing certain lines of, say a code block.


```haskell
extractLines :: NaturalGreaterThan0 -> Natural -> String -> String
```
<hr/>
Fold an attribute set down while allowing for attribute sets to be a leaf value. 

The first function returns true if the given attribute set is a leaf value.
The second function maps leaf values to final values.
The third function returns a combined final value from the final values of the lower branches.

For example, to sum the leaf values in an attribute set where a leaf is either a nix value
or attribute set containing "stop" as an attribute is:

```nix
countLeaves = foldAttrsCond 
  # An attribute set is a leaf if it contains "stop" as an attribute.
  (s: s ? stop) 
  # return the value 1 for each leaf. We don't need the actual value to compute the result.
  (_: 1)        
  # countMap is a flat attribute set containing the previously counted branches.
  (countMap: builtins.foldl' (sum: count: sum + count) 0 (builtins.attrValues countMap));

# This should return 5.
nleaves = countLeaves { a = { b = "b"; c = "c"; }; d.e.f = "f"; g = { h = { stop = 2; }; i = 7; }; };
```


```haskell
foldAttrsCond :: (a -> Bool) -> (a -> b) -> (AttrSet b -> b) -> AttrSet a -> b
```
<hr/>
This is just like `foldAttrsCond` except the function to convert leaf
values into final values also takes in the path from the top of the
attribute set for that leaf value.


```haskell
foldAttrsIxCond :: ((AttrSet e ) -> Bool) -> (a -> Path -> b) -> (AttrSet b -> b) -> AttrSet a -> Path -> b
```
<hr/>
Maps elements to a module and merges the modules;


```haskell
foldMapModules :: (a -> Module) -> [a] -> Module
```
<hr/>
Maps elements to a page and then merges the pages

```haskell
foldMapPages :: (a -> Page) -> [a] -> Page
```
<hr/>
Merges a list of modules

```haskell
foldModules :: [Module] -> Module
```
<hr/>


```haskell
foldPages :: [ Page ] -> Page
```
<hr/>
Writes a html file to the nix store given some module who's `drv` builds to a markdown file.

_Todo_

* Add the ability to auto-include static resources as part of the
produced derivation.  For example `--css ./filePath` would be generated
via some statement stating to include ./filePath as a css resource.

```haskell
htmlFile :: Name -> String -> (FilePath | Derivation) -> Derivation
```
<hr/>
Indent lines in the given string by an integer number of spaces


```haskell
indent :: Natural -> String -> String
```
<hr/>
This is a convenience function for users to create new modules within texts
without needing to manually create modules


```haskell
label :: Path -> Text -> Module
```
<hr/>
Builds a markdown file derivation with the given name to the nix store.

_Todo_

* Maybe refactor the text out?
```haskell
markdownFile :: Name -> Module -> Derivation
```
<hr/>
Modules merge by recursiveUpdate but the toplevel text fields
are concatenated.


```haskell
mergeModules :: Module -> Module -> Module
```
<hr/>
A Page is the toplevel type used throughout conix. 


```haskell
mergePages :: Page -> Page -> Page
```
<hr/>
Construct markdown content for a documentation data structure 

_Todo_

* Right now this is not language agnostic...maybe it should be?
```haskell
mkDocModule :: { name : String; docstr : String; type : String }
```
<hr/>
Create a module using the given nix snippet code and
the evaluated result.

The text is markdown (see snippet for the template)

_Todo_

* This fails in an stack overflow / infinite recursion issue if:

  * the code is importing conix via a fetch git (using `./git.nix`)
  * and we're building the conix documentation.

  For example the `readme/sample.nix` works on its own, however if its
  text is passed in as the `code` argument inside of the readme derivation
  we get infinite recursion.

```haskell
nixSnippet :: Name -> String -> Module
```
<hr/>
Writes a file of the specified type to the nix store using pandoc.

The list of derivation are extra buildInputs that pandoc should use.

_Todo_

* Remove hardcoded markdown input type
```haskell
pandoc :: Type -> [ Derivation ] -> Name -> String -> (FilePath | Derivation) -> Derivation
```
<hr/>
Writes a pdf file to the nix store given some module who's `drv` builds to a markdown file.


```haskell
pdfFile :: Name -> String -> (FilePath | Derivation) -> Derivation
```
<hr/>
This is like `label` but for nesting a module. We can't have just `label` and check whether the
input is a string or attribute set (yet? see todo for `toTextModule`) because doing so triggers
infinite recursion. Thus we need a separate function to achieve the same task.


```haskell
set :: Path -> Module -> Module
```
<hr/>
Create a module whos text is a code snippet with some evaluated output.
If no output is provided then it's codeblock is omitted.


```haskell
snippet :: LanguageString -> CodeString -> OutputString -> Module
```
<hr/>
An alias for `builtins.toString`
This is a convenience function so users don't clutter up their content
with long bits of code for small things.


```haskell
str :: (IsString t) => String
```
<hr/>
This is an alias for `text`.
A convenience function for creating 
TODO: it might be a better user experience to rename this to `txt` instead.


```haskell
t :: (IsString t) => t -> Module
```
<hr/>
This is the most common function for constructing content for the user.
It allows them to write plain text and assignments alongside each other.
Here's an example:

```nix
conix: { report = conix.lib.texts [
  ''
  The final count for the muffin competition was:
  ''
  (conix.lib.md.list "muffinCount"
    [ "Blue Berry: ${t (builtins.length conix.muffins.blueBerry)}"
      "Whole Grain:  ${t (builtins.length conix.muffins.wholeGrain)}"
    ]
  )
]; }
```


```haskell
texts :: [ String | Module ] -> Module
```
<hr/>
Converts either text or a module to a module. This is used by the `texts`
function.  NOTE: Use of this can cause infinite recursion issues. See the
Infinite Recursion discussion.

_Todo_

* It might be worth investigating whether I could use a small typing system
      and if x has no type then assume it's a raw, stringable nix value

```haskell
toTextModule :: (String | Module)  -> Module
```
## Discussion

### Modules

Modules are the core of conix. Their type is defined as:

```haskell
Module = { text : String; ... }
```

The rest of the attribute set defines the structure of the user's
content (including the derivations containing the rendered output).

For example the final module describing a single markdown file might
look like:

```nix
{ drv = <derivation>; 
  text = "Call me at: 555-123-456"; 
  phone = "555-123-456"; 
}
```

Here the user has the text for the markdown file; the derivation of the
built markdown file and some extra data containing the phone number.

Modules are meant to allow the user to describe the textual structure of
their content and the structure of the rendered in the same data structure.

The empty module contains nothing. The core functions defined in this file
treat the missing text value as an empty string to save memory.


### Pages

TODO

### Infinite Recursion

TODO


---
Built using <a href="https://github.com/theNerd247/conix.git">conix</a> version 0.1.0
